Constitution of Engineering & Technology Club at College of DuPage

We, members of Engineering & Technology Club hereby associate ourselves to be an integral part of the Student Activities program at College of DuPage as of Spring Semester 2016.

ARTICLE l. NAME
The name of this club shall be Engineering & Technology Club.
ARTICLE ll. OBJECTIVES
A. to provide a community of support for students pursuing an Engineering or Technical Degree
B. to provide for its members an opportunity to participate in a college extracurricular activity;
C. to provide opportunities to meet and make new friends;
D. to promote interest in Engineering and other Technical fields of study
E. to provide opportunities for members to broaden their academic experience beyond the classrooms, lecture halls, laboratories, etc.
F. to introduce engineering students to how their designs are implemented
G. to introduce technical students to the engineering design process
ARTICLE Ill. MEMBERSHIP
A. Full membership in Engineering Club shall be open to any College of DuPage student enrolled in at least one credit hour. Full members are eligible to vote and hold office.
B. Faculty, staff, and community members may be associate members. Associate members may participate in club meetings, functions, and activities, but may not vote, serve as
officers, or partake in any club event that requires active enrollment.
ARTICLE IV. OFFICERS & DUTIES
A. The officers of the organization shall be President, Vice President, Head of Robotics, Treasurer, Head of Mechanics, Head of Electronics, Head of Social Outreach, and Head of Corporate Relations.
B. The duties of the officers shall be:
President:
to preside at all general meetings of the club;
to carry out provisions of the constitution;
liaison between advisor and club ;
to oversee and assist committee chairpeople.
2. Vice President:
to attend all general meetings
to assist the President
to oversee and assist committee chairpeople
to replace the President during the President's absence
to handle duties requested by the President, and;
to work with the President and Committee Chairpersons in integrating committee projects into club happenings
	3. Head of Robotics
Shall be shared between President and Vice President;
Preside over robotics meetings;
Coordinating robotics related purchases
Manage scheduling robotics events, meeting deadlines
4. Treasurer:
to attend general meetings; 
to maintain financial records; 
to render regular reports upon requests
to collect revenues, issue receipts, and properly deposit revenues; 
to prepare appropriate paperwork for all expenditures;
to assign and instruct trustworthy, responsible people to be in charge of or help out with the money that goes into cash boxes involved in fundraising events and
activities, and collect the total revenue yielded from fundraising events and activities;
to work with other officers to determine fundraisers needed and with advisor and liaison to determine approval, and to make necessary arrangements for space and workers;
to collaborate with Committee Chairpersons about the money that can be allotted to them for committee projects.
5. Head of Social Outreach:
to attend all general meetings;
to take attendance at the general meetings,
and compile attendance records from events;
to takes notes on the general meetings about what was proposed, discussed, decided on, etc.;
to update roster of members regularly in attendance;
to keep, add to, and revise the name, phone number, mailing address, and e-mail address list of full members and associate members;
to book a room(s) for club and/or committee meetings and to complete necessary forms,
to add to or edit information on the club's Web Page, if one exists.
6. Head of Corporate Relations:
Attend all general meetings
Seeking new sponsors;
Communicating with marketing and sponsors
7. Head of Mechanics:
Must be present at all general meetings and build meetings;
Overseeing any work being done on the robot mechanically
8. Head of Electronics:
Must attend all general meetings and design meetings.
Overseeing any work being done on the robot electronically
ARTICLE V. ELECTION OF OFFICERS
A. The term of office shall be for one year and run from June to May for the President and Secretary, and from January to December for the Vice President and Treasurer.
B. Elections shall be held the end of both Fall and Spring Semesters. Voting shall be by secret ballot; a plurality vote shall determine the winners. In case of a tie, a runoff election will be held at the same meeting.
C. Only full members, who are in good standing with the college, and have and maintain a 2.0 GPA, are eligible to hold office. Members who have attended three meetings and/or events in the last semester are eligible to vote.
D. Nominations will take place at a meeting and should be announced before the election, but nominations and elections can happen at the same meeting, if prior notice has been given.
E. Candidates will nominate themselves.
F. Advisor and current officers shall count votes.
ARTICLE VI. REMOVAL OF OFFICERS
Officers may be removed if the members feel that the officer is not performing his/her duties at a level which best upholds the constitution and by-laws of the club. Members should consult their advisor and/or their Student Activities liaison to establish a process for removal from office.
page 2 of 3
Constitution of Engineering Club at College of DuPage
ARTICLE Vil. COMMITTEES
A. Committees will be formed by the officers as the need arises.
B. Committee chairs:
1. will be appointed by the officers during the last half of the spring semester or as needed; 2. will be responsible for learning and carrying out proper procedures; and,
3. will be responsible for recruiting committee members.
ARTICLE Vill. ADVISOR
A. This club shall choose a regular advisor who will:
1. be a College of DuPage faculty or staff member properly approved;
2. attend meetings and events of the club, and;
3. advise the officers and members on developing and implementing a program which allows the club to fulfill its purposes and objectives.
ARTICLE IX. MEETINGS
Meeting shall be held regularly at a time to be specified by officers and advisor(s). Days and times of meetings shall be set at the beginning of each semester and shall be submitted to the Student Activities Liaison.
ARTICLE X. AMENDMENTS/REVISIONS
Amendments/Revisions to this constitution shall be submitted to the President in writing for submission to the members for a vote. These amendments in final form (i.e., a revised copy of
the constitution) along with a memo explaining the changes should be forwarded to the Student
Activities Liaison for approval and filing.
